In this section we are discussing about mouse event related properties, properties which are representing
the X and Y coordinates.
There are two related questions to this topic.
So with mouse event, there are various properties of event object which give you X and y position or
coordinates of the mouse.
They can be used in different contexts as per requirement.
And these properties are the client X.
Client Y.
Page X and page y.
And we do also have screen X and screen Y to understand all these properties.
I have created a sample code.
Let's check the code first and then we figure out workings by looking at the output.
Here I have created a C.
S class for division.
I have used the element selector and here I'm using an ID selector.
So there are two divisions I have placed here.
So on the first division, I am going to display the x and y value and the second division is just there
to have a scroll bar in some situation, which I will explain in a moment when we see it in the browser.
Also, I have used the on mouse model for the body and I have called the E handler.
This is a function which I am calling, and inside this function I have joined a string that I display
event card, client x and y, page x and Y and screen x and y.
All these different properties you will easily understand.
Once we go through it.
Now, let me show you the output first.
So this is the output now because I have written on Bodies Mouse Moon.
The moment I moved the mouse I will have updated x and y coordinates.
Now here.
First of all, let's quickly understand what is screen x and why the screen x and Y represents the screen
itself.
So whatever is the screen size, depending on that, that means relative to screen.
That means this entire screen, in this particular screen size, where is the mouse pointer?
That means what is the horizontal value?
That is the X value and what is the vertical value?
That is the Y value.
Now let's talk about the client and page coordinates.
At the moment.
If you carefully observe for both X and Y of client and page mode, the values remain same.
Right now, let's say it is 119.
Now, if I move it, it is still 162.
If I move it, it is to 36.
But the values that is both client and page values are the same.
Then what is the difference between these two?
The difference is that client X and Y is related to the current window, whereas the page X and Y is
related to the document.
That is the page.
Now let's see the difference.
At the moment, both client and page y are same excuse anyway, going to be same, so that doesn't matter.
Now I will just resize the window and I will make it smaller.
All right, so now I just add a situation where I have a scroll bar in the page.
Now, still, the Y is similar.
Let me just scroll and then reset the value.
Now there is a difference in client y and page y.
That means the moment you have the scrollbar, the values differ.
What actually happens is, let's say this consider this pointer as the position.
So the position X or Y is actually calculating from this place, whereas in case of page, some section
of page is still scrolled up.
So it starts calculating from that place itself.
That is this one.
So now you see this client is starting from this place, but as page is calculated from this place.
Now this only happens when you have a scrollbar.
So page Y will always see the starting of the document or the page, and then it will give you the vertical
position.
Whereas in case of client it is going to check the window itself.
That is from this place.
So the position X or Y in case of client is related to window and page X and Y is related to document.
That means whenever you have scrollbar, you'll be able to understand that from the client x and Y.
They are calculated this way and page x and Y they are calculated in this way.
Let's discuss the questions of this topic.
The first question is explain the difference between client x, y and page x, y.
So this is how the differences that the client refers this window area where is the page might be scrollable
in both x and y coordinates and then it will be a different value in a non scrollable window.
You might find that that both the values are similar.
The second question is explain the difference between planned x, y and screen x y.
So screen actually represents the entire screen.
Plant x, y refers to the window which we have already seen, whereas screen refers the entire screen.
So whenever you move the mouse, the relevance of screen x y is always related to the screen size itself.